# SHA-256 Cryptographic Hash Algorithm

Returns a SHA-256 hash of the supplied object or file, or HMAC if a
secret key is supplied.

## Usage

``` r
sha256(x, key = NULL, convert = TRUE, file)
```

## Arguments

- x:

  object to hash. A character string or raw vector (without attributes)
  is hashed as is. All other objects are stream hashed using native R
  serialization.

- key:

  if `NULL`, the SHA-256 hash of `x` is returned. If a character string
  or raw vector, this is used as a secret key to generate an HMAC. Note:
  for character vectors, only the first element is used.

- convert:

  logical `TRUE` to convert the hash to its hex representation as a
  character string, `FALSE` to return directly as a raw vector, or `NA`
  to return as a vector of (32-bit) integers.

- file:

  character file name / path. If specified, `x` is ignored. The file is
  stream hashed, and the file can be larger than memory.

## Value

A character string, raw or integer vector depending on `convert`.

## R Serialization Stream Hashing

Where this is used, serialization is always version 3 big-endian
representation and the headers (containing R version and native encoding
information) are skipped to ensure portability across platforms.

As hashing is performed in a streaming fashion, there is no
materialization of, or memory allocation for, the serialized object.

## References

The SHA-256 Secure Hash Standard was published by the National Institute
of Standards and Technology (NIST) in 2002 at
<https://csrc.nist.gov/publications/fips/fips180-2/fips180-2.pdf>.

This implementation is based on one by 'The Mbed TLS Contributors' under
the 'Mbed TLS' Trusted Firmware Project at
<https://www.trustedfirmware.org/projects/mbed-tls>.

## Examples

``` r
# SHA-256 hash as character string:
sha256("secret base")
#> [1] "1951c1ca3d50e95e6ede2b1c26fefd0f0e8eba1e51a837f8ccefb583a2b686fe"

# SHA-256 hash as raw vector:
sha256("secret base", convert = FALSE)
#>  [1] 19 51 c1 ca 3d 50 e9 5e 6e de 2b 1c 26 fe fd 0f 0e 8e ba 1e 51 a8 37 f8 cc
#> [26] ef b5 83 a2 b6 86 fe

# SHA-256 hash a file:
file <- tempfile(); cat("secret base", file = file)
sha256(file = file)
#> [1] "1951c1ca3d50e95e6ede2b1c26fefd0f0e8eba1e51a837f8ccefb583a2b686fe"
unlink(file)

# SHA-256 HMAC using a character string secret key:
sha256("secret", key = "base")
#> [1] "14b24e4c66bd03c1d6b59bc59e1e47468a437001662ae4be2cb30e0483e13e44"

# SHA-256 HMAC using a raw vector secret key:
sha256("secret", key = charToRaw("base"))
#> [1] "14b24e4c66bd03c1d6b59bc59e1e47468a437001662ae4be2cb30e0483e13e44"
```
